Wayward Ratonga
Chapter 1, Arrival
Two pairs of footsteps enter the ship’s cargo hold. The wooden boards occasionally creak as the unseen people approach a wooden barrel about half their height. They position themselves on each side and lift it up.
“Wasn’t this heavier when we brought it on board?” one of the sailors asks.
“Must’ve been that rat stealing the cheese.” the other sailor responds. “Just stay quiet and it won’t be our problem.”
“Right.”
The barrel wobbles as the sailors carry it up on deck and off the boat.
"Next to the crates. There." One of the sailors says. He sighs. “Just a few more and we’re done.”
The sailors leave the pier and board the ship again. Gentle waves hit the boat and the pier while a few voices come from the ship.

A thump hits the barrel lid from the inside. Another thump causes the lid to loosen. It slowly lifts up as a the head of a ratonga, a rat person about half the height of an average human peeks out. He’s dressed in a grey short-sleeved tunic and has brown pants that just about matches his brown and light brown-patterned fur. A brown belt is around his waist with a small cloth bag tied to the right side and a small dagger in a sheath to the left. The ratonga, Kaki, carefully looks around to make sure no one’s near. He managed to hide the entire trip here and doesn’t want to get found out now. 

No one’s on the pier right now, though, so he quickly climbs out of the barrel and closes the lid before he scurries down the pier towards the sandy beach. The beach circles around a tall cliff wall with an open arch leading to a new area beyond it. There are a bunch of crates and palms a short distance from the gate. Kaki reaches the beach and hides behind one of the crates, out of sight of the ship. He pauses and listens to see if anyone noticed him. Nothing is heard except for the waves washing against the shore. He thinks he should be safe when he spots a halfling with unkempt hair some distance away. The halfling stares suspiciously at Kaki while holding a fishing rod but doesn’t say anything.

Kaki walks toward the archway with a few quick steps and steps through it. Kaki calms down when he loses sight of the halfling. He’s glad to finally be off the ship, glad to finally be on the island. He looks around the inside area. A large natural cliff wall encircles the whole grassy area with two other arches exiting at opposite sides of the wall. Remnants of a long-dead volcano perhaps. There’s a tall stone tower in the middle of the area with a single wooden structure and a large rock statue slightly obscured behind it. Along the cliff wall are multiple tents with different people and races standing by them and what looks to be groups of dark-armored guards patrolling the area. The tip of a lighthouse is seen beyond the wall.

Kaki smiles. So, this is the training island he’s heard the other adventurers talk about on the boat ride here. The place certainly seems more open than where he came from. He begins strolling and looking around. While there are people around, Kaki notices he can’t see any of the adventurers themselves. He wonders where they are given it’s only been about an hour since they arrived.
“Hey, ratonga!” a voice yells out. Kaki flinches, unprepared to be called out. He recovers and looks towards the voice. One of the patrols consisting of two humans, a burly barbarian, and an even burlier ogre, all clad in dark chain and plate armor, approach him.
“Ah, y-yes?” Kaki stutters in response.

“Did you also come with the ship?” one of the humans asks as he inspects Kaki.
“Yes. Yes I did.” Kaki says. He had planned to mix together with the other adventurers when they all arrived but couldn’t get out of the barrel until now. He’ll just have to say he’s late off the ship.
“…won’t be happy…” the human quietly mumbles.
“What?”
The human humphs. “Follow us and report to Emissary Tayil in the tower.”
“Okay.” Kaki says. He walks over to the waiting patrol. All of them are taller than Kaki, with the ogre being almost three times his height. Everyone walks together towards the tower.

Kaki peeks at the ogre behind him. The ogre notices and glares back, causing Kaki to shy away and look elsewhere instead. Some of the people by the tents look towards them. Kaki can see them discussing something but he can’t hear what they’re saying due to the sound of the patrol’s metal armor grinding against each other.
They arrive. Three large half-circle steps lead up to a small open arch, revealing the entrance into the tower. Kaki spots a male erudite inside, a bald descendant of human origin with brown skin, bluer eyes, and more affinity with both magic and being jerks about it. The erudite is occupied with his book despite the noise they’ve made on their way here.

Kaki hesitates, unsure if he should wait for the erudite to notice them. Kaki hears a humph behind him as someone pushes him forward. He almost trips on the first step but manages to keep himself standing. The ratonga walks up the wide steps and enters the tower. Inside the circular tower is a large square rock table with a few chairs around it, though the erudite is standing beside it rather than sitting down. A couple of bookshelves filled with books and scrolls are to the left. Circling along and up the right wall are rock stairs going to the floor above.
“Excuse me,” Kaki says as he approaches the erudite.
The erudite finally looks up from his book. “…yes?”
“I came with the ship. I was told to report to Tayil.“
The erudite silently looks at Kaki. “She won’t like this.” he finally says with a sigh. “Wait here.”

Kaki looks at the erudite as he ascends the spiral staircase. Kaki gets a little worried from what the erudite said but tries to stand strong. He just needs to learn to know this Tayil and get started on whatever training there is to do on the island. He’s been looking forward to it ever since he heard the adventurers on the boat talking about it, even though training wasn’t his initial intention when he hid on the ship in the first place.
Footsteps echo in the tower as someone descends the staircase. Kaki follows the steps and sees a slim female dark elf wearing a white armor decorated with golden patterns. Her skin is dark purple and her white hair is tied up behind her head, revealing her pointy ears. Dark elves tend to be cruel, manipulative, and spiteful. Her piercing gaze makes Kaki slightly uncomfortable.

“Your name, ratonga?” the dark elf, Tayil, asks as she approaches.
“It’s Kaki, ma’am.” Kaki answers.
“You’re also an adventurer who came with the ship?”
“Yes ma’am.”
“The other adventurers already left. Tell me, Kaki.” Tayil’s voice gets colder. “Why are you late?”
Kaki swallows. He already thought this through while he was still inside the barrel.
“I’m sorry. I overslept and the others forgot about me.” Kaki answers. “But I’m ready to catch up to the rest.”
Tayil looks at Kaki. “Lie to me again and I’ll have you buried underneath the pier.” Tayil’s voice is ice cold as she takes one step towards Kaki.

Kaki gets taken aback from the unexpected threat. What should he say now? Blame someone? No. He got stuck? No. Say he’s a stowaway? No, that’s risky. 
Tayil frowns. “Militia.” She calls out. “Imprison and interrogate the ratonga.”
“Yes, Emmisary!” a voice from right outside the tower responds.
Kaki turns around and sees the barbarian Militia approach him. Kaki backs away and worries how he should escape given the other Militia are still standing just outside the entrance. He considers pulling his dagger but want to avoid escalating the situation. The barbarian reaches to grab Kaki. The ratonga jumps up on the bookshelf and leaps around the Militia. Kaki tries to think of a solution when a strong sense of horror grips Kaki’s mind. The shock paralyzes Kaki, causing him to fall over.

“Take him out of my sight.” Tayil says. A purple mist dissipates from her raised right hand.
The dread in Kaki’s head prevents him from thinking clearly or muster any strength in his body. The barbarian walks up to Kaki and chuckles as he effortlessly hoists the small ratonga up by the left arm. Kaki helplessly dangles in the air as the barbarian takes the dagger from him. The barbarian drags Kaki out of the tower where the human Militia grabs onto the ratonga’s right arm.

The Militia patrol walks away from the tower with Kaki. Kaki hears murmurs in the vicinity but can’t turn around to look. The dread gradually clears up the farther away from the tower they get, finally allowing Kaki to think and feel his body again. Kaki curses his luck. To anger a spellcaster the moment he arrives, a necromancer even. He’d never seen any necromancer dress like that before. He would’ve been more careful had he known. Though, he might’ve been able to break free of the spell had the Militia hit him in there. He’s learned several different ways to escape dangerous scenarios, spells included. But knowing ways and actually being able to execute them is always a gamble.

Kaki discreetly glances at the two Militia holding him. The barbarian to the left wears a plate gauntlet covering parts of his lower arm while the human to the right wears a chain mail glove fastened with leather straps. Kaki figures a way he might be able to escape but he needs to be fast.
Kaki times the barbarian’s steps. Right in the middle of one, Kaki retracts his body in and uses both legs to kick the barbarian’s foot. The barbarian loses his balance and falls forward, reflexively letting go of Kaki’s arm. Kaki quickly turns towards the human’s chain glove, pulls it down just enough to see part of the upper wrist, and bites it with his front teeth. The Militia screams and releases his grip as well. Kaki catches himself from falling and immediately bolts away.
“Hey stop! Stop that ratonga!” the other human Militia yells as he draws his sword.

Kaki’s eyes dart back and forth as he looks for a way to escape. The first thought is the same way he came from to try and swim away, but any arrow or spell could easily get him. He sees a different guarded arch leading out into what looks like a forest. There’s also another arch—
An arrow flies in front of Kaki’s face, causing him to flinch. Kaki stops thinking and heads toward the forest arch. He goes straight across the field when a familiar feeling of horror grips Kaki’s mind. He tumbles forward but just about manage to control his landing and roll on the ground. Kaki’s mind is filled with dread again, yet not as powerful as to completely paralyze him.

“Kill him!” Tayil yells from the tower. Kaki looks to the side and sees a purple mist seethe from her shoulders.
Kaki hears the Militia getting closer. He can just about move his arms but not his legs. He thinks of the way to escape the spell; pain. If the Militia hit him first, the pain could make him break free of the spell. However, the Militia probably won’t pull their punches now. He needs a different way to cause enough pain. Although… Kaki looks at his left arm. He knows of one way… Not a way he’s looking forward to. Kaki opens his mouth but hesitates.

The thumps and vibrations from the approaching ogre makes Kaki stop hesitating. He bites hard onto his left upper arm, causing him to squint and squeak in pain. The pain courses through his arm, successfully dispelling the spell. Kaki wastes no time and bolts forward again towards the arch. He can just about hear Tayil cast a spell behind him. A skeletal hand emerges from the ground right in front of Kaki but he effortlessly jumps over it.

The two Militia guards by the arch are at full alert with their weapons drawn. Kaki runs straight towards one guard and takes a quick step to the left. The guard reflexively twists to meet with Kaki, but the ratonga immediately turns to the right instead and dodges around. He climbs the rock stairs, exits through the archway and leaps over the 1.5 meter tall palisade positioned on the other side. Kaki escapes into the forest.

Chapter 2, The Forest
Ten minutes later. The sun hangs high in the sky, its rays finding their way down the canopy of trees. Kaki continues to sprint non-stop, panting noticeably. He thinks he should be safe now. Fully armored guards aren’t known for being able to challenge ratongan speed. Running is always an option if fighting is too risky or isn’t necessary. Unless he has to rough someone up a bit. Easier to give such tasks to stronger guys, but that’s exactly the reason why Kaki occasionally used to get them. Don’t need to be big and burly to fight dirty.

Kaki glances behind him. Nothing but trees and bushes. While he believes he should be safe, believing is never a guarantee. A bush brushes against Kaki’s left arm, causing the wound to sting again. He covers it with his right hand. Before anything else, he needs to take care of this wound first. Though he’d prefer doing it somewhere out of sight. Kaki looks around for any place to hide but nothing good comes up. Kaki runs for another two minutes until he finally finds something that looks useful. A big oak tree with large branches high up. Maybe not inconspicuous, but he can easily hide his whole body up there.

Kaki approaches the tree and effortlessly climbs it several meters up. He settles on one of the boughs and leans his back against the trunk. The heavy panting gradually settles down as Kaki gets time to rest. He sighs. Already chased out the moment he arrived. He wonders if he maybe should’ve said the truth to the dark elf. Maybe things could’ve gone differently. Or maybe he’d get arrested even faster. Just… Kaki wonders what he should do now. Does he already have to escape the island? The thoughts linger, making Kaki feel dejected.

Another sting in Kaki’s left arm breaks his thoughts. He looks at the wound he caused to himself. Hardened blood is stuck in the fur around the bite mark. Fresh blood still slowly seeps from it, painting his brown fur with thin red streams. Kaki thinks he’d better do something about this first. He rummages through the cloth bag on his right side. Thankfully, the Militia didn’t take that as well. Losing the dagger is rough though. Kaki takes out a piece of cheese from the bag and throws it into his mouth. He rummages again and pulls out a filled glass bottle.
“Ugh.” Kaki says audibly as he inspects the bottle. Healing potions are supposed to have a nice red color. This one is reddish-brown with visible sediments floating around. It’s gone bad. Kaki remembers being tricked to drink such a potion once. Never again.

Kaki lifts his arm to throw away the potion when he hesitates. The wound… How is he supposed to get it treated now? Just bandage it? Kaki recalls hearing stories of hunters with bite wounds from wild animals, about how such wounds quickly turn much worse. Is his own bite equally as bad?
Kaki scans at the ground underneath him. The bough he’s on covers him from below. He should be able to stay hidden even if the Militia catch up to him. Kaki looks back at the potion and opens it. A sour odor comes from the bottle, causing Kaki to frown. It’s certainly gone bad but… it’s still a healing potion. Kaki takes a deep breath and pours the content into his mouth. He almost gags straight away but forces himself to swallow all of it down. Kaki breathes out and waits for what’s coming next.

A warmth builds up within Kaki’s stomach. He almost retches straight away as his stomach immediately tries to get rid its content before it’s too late. Kaki focuses on breathing slowly and sits as still as possible while the warmth and nausea builds up. The warmth gradually spreads around his body. The wound on Kaki’s arm gets warmer akin to sitting next to a campfire. It’s a pleasant feeling had it not been accompanied by the nausea.
[Maybe give a little more content.]

A minute passes before both the warmth and the nausea begins to decrease. Another minute passes before the ordeal is finally over. Kaki carefully takes a deep breath. He’s glad at least that’s over. Kaki gently grabs his left arm and inspects it. The skin is healed, thankfully, albeit colored red. The fur is also missing from those spots. That’ll need some time to grow back. Kaki releases his arm and leans back against the trunk. He’s glad the wound is taken care of. No more danger from that.
Kaki then feels a light pulse around his head. He sighs. Now to the bad part. The pulsing is just about noticeable but quickly makes itself apparent as it intensifies and eventually begins to hurt. The headache gets stronger and stronger, pulsing heavily with every heartbeat. Kaki groans. He closes his eyes and just accepts the fate he brought upon himself.

20 minutes passes. Kaki lies on the branch as he clutches his head and tries to keep it from exploding. He groans, fully aware this will continue for a while longer.
Something rustles underneath Kaki. He slowly leans his head to the side and looks own. Right beneath Kaki are two elves clad in green colored armor carrying a bow each. Kaki panics and quickly hides behind the bough. He just about manages to stifle another groan as the headache throbs even harder from the sudden movement. Did Tayil’s men find him already? Now of all times? Kaki stays completely still, barely even breathing in fear of being discovered.

“Here’s a good acorn,” one of the elves say. Footsteps walk away from the oak tree.
Kaki continues to lie still. Did they leave?
“All right,” the same voice says a short distance away, causing Kaki to flinch. There’s a short pause.
“Oh Tunare,” the voice begins. “Blessed be your name. Grant this seed…”
The wind starts blowing through the leaves, drowning out what’s being said. The wind continues for half a minute until it finally dies down. Kaki tries to listen for anything but it’s quiet again.
“There,” the voice says, causing Kaki to flinch again. “Let’s head back before the Militia find us.”
“Okay,” another voice says a bit farther away. “I’ll take point.”
Footsteps recede into the distance before the area turns quiet once more. Kaki lies motionless on the bough, not trusting the silence anymore. His headache continues to throb.

Another 15 minutes passes. Kaki is finally free from the headache. He cautiously surveys the area as he descends the tree one branch at a time. No one is visible. Kaki sighs and jumps down to the ground. He thinks back of the elves from earlier. They were actually wood elves. Basically like other elves but slightly shorter, having more of a tan, and being more friendly. Except Kaki hardly ever see them where he’s from, given they’re generally distrusted for mostly siding with Qeynos. They weren’t looking for him, thankfully. Though, what were they actually doing here?

Kaki walks over to where he last heard them and tries to find any signs of what they did. Something about an… acorn? The moment Kaki thinks about the acorn, he spots a newly sprouted oak sapling with the shell still stuck to its base. Kaki crouches down to the plant and carefully picks up the empty acorn shell. Did the elves do this? They did mention something about… Kaki tries to remember the name again. Too Nare? No, Tunare? A god? …goddess? Kaki doesn’t know much about religions or gods. He’s never really cared about that stuff. What he does know is that whenever priests gives a sermon is good opportunity to rob peoples’ homes since they’ll be busy for a while.

Kaki recalls the elves also mentioned about avoiding the Militia. Might they actually be a different group on the island then? Or others also chased away by Tayil? Someone like Tayil probably wouldn’t even want to be close to any wood elf though. But it’s still a different group! Kaki thinks he maybe can join them instead. Except… how is he going to convince them? They are generally friendlier but Kaki is aware he’ll more likely be considered an enemy than not. He’s also aware ratongas doesn’t always have the best reputation. Thieving is just so convenient.
Kaki rolls the empty acorn between his fingers as he ponders what he can do. Should he bring something to them? Or…? He pauses and looks at the acorn shell. Maybe if he did the same thing the elves did? That praying thing. Kaki figures it was praying. That’d hopefully show his good intention.

Kaki walks back to the oak tree and looks around. He finds another acorn and picks it up. He returns to the oak sapling and sits down close to it. He places the acorn on the ground and pushes it down slightly. Kaki places his hands on the acorn and breathes in. He pauses mid-breath as he hesitates. How do you pray to a goddess? Kaki is aware you need to venerate them, but then what? Kaki tries to think back of what he’s heard in the past but only memories of angry priests yelling out into crowds come to mind. Couldn’t hear much of what the wood elf said either. Kaki ponders for a moment. He finally sighs. Guess as long as the intention is there. Kaki covers the acorn again and close his eyes.

“Oh Tunare.” Kaki begins. “Listen to this ratonga… please? Please make this acorn healthy, so… so it can grow. So it can be big and strong. Like, so… …so like his friend… please? Thank yo— Uh… bless Tunare!”
Kaki blushes slightly, eyes still closed. He opens his eyes and lift his hands.
The acorn is untouched.
Kaki chuckles lightly. He didn’t think it’d actually sprout. The ratonga smiles despite that and stands up. He can now tell the elves he did a prayer to Tunare, even if it was awkward. Except… Kaki looks around. Where did the elves go? Certainly not towards Tayil’s outpost, that’s for certain. Kaki thinks back. The only thing he can think of is that they seemed to be heading more in a north-eastern, north-western direction, and not south. Kaki looks to the north. He guesses it’s as good of a hint as any as he proceeds northward.

Chapter 3, Adventurers
Kaki continues northward through the forest for 15 minutes. He doesn’t know how big the island is but he hopes to find the elves before it gets dark. Still plenty of hours until then. At least the wound on his arm is taken care of, albeit not without experiencing that headache again.
“Hey there, ratonga!” a voice suddenly shouts out.
Kaki panics and immediately hides behind a tree.
“Whoa, sorry I scared you buddy.” the same voice says. “We just wanted to talk.”

Kaki catches his bearing. They want to talk? They aren’t immediately attacking him? Kaki carefully peeks forward. He sees a female red kerra some distance away, a feline humanoid about or slightly larger than a human. They tend to be calm and are fun to tease when you can get away with it. They, in return, think it’s fun to chase ratongas. The voice Kaki heard didn’t come from her though. Too high pitched. He looks again and spots a male brown ratonga with a white snout. A kerra and a ratonga going together? They got leather armor but no black metal like the Militia. Are they two of the adventurers? Kaki clears his throat.
“Sorry, been a bit tense lately” Kaki says. “What do you want?”

“It’s okay” the white snouted ratonga begins. “I admit we did call you out of nowhere. We’ve barely seen any other ratonga and saw you heading north. We’re also heading north—“
“Kinda” the kerra interjects.
“Well, we’re heading north for real now and thought I’d be nice to have another ratonga to talk to.” the ratonga says.
“Mostly you I’d figure.” the kerra says.
Kaki considers the offer. Don’t they know what happened at the outpost? They don’t seem to be aware of it yet. Though they’ll surely learn of it soon enough. Although… talking to them would be a good opportunity to get some information on what’s happening on the island, given Kaki never got the chance earlier.

“Yeah… yeah, sure. I’d want that.” Kaki says. “Name’s Kaki by the way.” Kaki proceeds to walk towards the duo.
“Great!” the ratonga says with a smile. “I’m Chester and my friend here is Kitty.”
“No it’s not!” the kerra says as she humphs. “It’s Kithy and you know it.”
“Right, right. Sorry.” Chester giggles. He’s clearly not sorry.
Kaki reaches the duo as they start to walk northward. Kaki takes glances at both Chester and Kithy. A ratonga and kerra accompanying each other. It’s not unheard of but it isn’t common either.
“Umm… how come you two are going together?” Kaki asks.
“Love at first sight.” Chester says bluntly.
“Pfft! W-what?” Kithy stutters. “No! Heck no! Ew!”
Chester laughs loudly. Kithy glares at Chester and then sighs.

“No, nothing like that.” Kithy begins. “We met on the ship. Overheard he also likes to collect things, so we became friends and decided to tag along.”
“We were actually looking for feathers when we saw you.” Chester says as he recovers. “But I guess that’ll have to wait.”
“I just need a hawk feather for a full set.” Kithy sighs again.
“What about you?” Chester asks. “We haven’t seen any other ratongas apart from Vasili. Are you also from the island?”
“I—“ Kaki begins but hesitates. He was about to agree but figures he’ll get found out the moment they ask anything related to the island. What should he say then? That he’s from the ship as well? No, they already know how many ratongas were on it. Kaki gets anxious as the duo looks at him.
“Kaki?” Chester says.

Kaki’s shoulders slump slightly. Only the truth is left…
“I… I’m… I was actually a stowaway on the same ship you came with.” Kaki says. He tenses his body slightly in case something happens.
“Really?” Kithy asks in surprise. “Can you prove that?”
“On— on the second week, when the drake attacked!” Kaki begins. “I heard someone was pushed into the ocean by the goblin that got loose. Had to stop the boat for him to catch up.” Kaki gets ready to escape if the duo decides t—
“That’s amazing!” Chester exclaims with a big smile. “You actually managed to stay hidden for the entire trip without anyone noticing? I never would’ve been able to do that. I guess that’s why the guards questioned everyone on the boat about a ratonga before we left?”

“A-ah… yeah.” Kaki says. He remembers he had to find a way to escape the town they were in when he saw a boat being loaded. Kaki hid in a barrel before it was carried aboard. He did hear the guards going about on deck looking for him.
“How did you even manage toile—” Chester says.
“Have you met Emissary Tayil at the outpost yet?” Kithy interrupts.
Kaki pauses, uncertain whether he should tell them.
“I… have. I-I-I kinda got on her bad side…” Kaki says.
“Yeah, I can see that happening if you’re a stowaway.” Kithy says. “Another guy almost got taken away from talking back at her too much. He and a few others must already be on the ship back to mainland now.”
Kaki’s ears pull up as he looks at Kithy.
“Eh? The ship’s already gone?” Kaki asks.

“Yeah. Emissary Tayil ordered it to leave as soon as they finished unloading their goods. No more ships for about a month from what I’ve heard.” Kithy answers.
Kaki realizes he probably could’ve already escaped the island had he gone straight for the ship. Chester slaps Kaki on the back.
“Don’t worry about that, friend!” Chester says. “Just stick with us and we’ll get through this month together!”
“I don’t recall ever agreeing to that.” Kithy says.
“Aw, come on!” Chester begins. “It’ll be fun! If he can stay hidden on a boat, then I’m sure he’ll be able to pull his weight.”
“Fine.” Kithy sighs into a groan. “Walking around with two ratongas now…”

“Ah, good timing!” Chester says. “Vasili’s camp is up ahead.”
Kaki looks forward and sees a few tents with some people around them.
“Who is this Vasili?” Kaki asks.
“Another ratonga, believe it or not.” Chester begins. “Assassin Vasili gives us orders on Tayil’s behalf.”
“Uuh, will I get in trouble?” Kaki gets worried.
“Just stay with us and let me do the talking. We’ll take care of it.” Chester proclaims.
Kaki isn’t fully convinced, but leaving now might risk making things even worse. He follows the duo as they enter the camp.

The camp consists of three tents roughly placed in a line. A black ratonga clad in dark clothes and leather armor stands next to a lit campfire in front of the first tent. Close by are four small hay bales with a wooden lid on top placed as if boxing something in. Muffled squeaks come from inside it. Close by the second tent stands a male iksar dressed in a teal robe. Iksars, the lizard people. Quite a rough bunch, really. Hard to get along with but they’re good at what they do. The iksar converses with a male human clad in black armor but without a helmet. The black ratonga inspects Kaki as the trio approaches.
“Another ratonga.” Assassin Vasili says. “Didn’t seem him before. Who’s this?”

“He’s our new good friend Kaki!” Chester begins. “He was a stowaway on the ship we came with.”
Eh? Kaki turns toward Chester with a shocked look.
Vasili looks a little surprised. “A stowaway?” The iksar and human stop their conversation and looks at the trio.
“You wouldn’t believe it, but he actually managed to stay hidden the entire trip here.” Chester says. “How many could you claim to be able to do that?”
Vasili rubs his chin. “Does Emissary Tayil know of this?
“Yeah. Well kinda.” Chester begins. “Seems there must’ve been some misunderstanding and Kaki got on her bad side. But that’s why he’s here to make up for it and prove he’s useful!”
“He angered Tayil and is still walking around?” The iksar interjects.
Kaki gets nervous from hearing this.

“Must mean there’s potential in him, yes?” Chester says.
Vasili looks between Kaki and Chester. “Hmmm.”
“We’ll take full responsibility for him during his stay here.” Chester proclaims.
Eh? Kaki turns toward Chester, again with a shocked look.
Kithy groans. “Now he went and said it.”
“We’ll see about that.” Vasili says. “You’re done with your task?
“Yes, Vasili” Chester says. “Should we go join the other adventurers now?”
Vasili poders. “Mmm, no. They’ve been at the mine for a while now and and should return here soon. I got another task for you three instead.” Vasili walks over to the hay bales. “Scouts report seeing Tunarians train the animals to fight for them.”
Kaki gets surprised at the mention of Tunarians.

Vasili opens the lid. “Take these mole rats and take care of the hawks inside Cliffdiver Canyon in preparation…” Vasili glances at Kaki.
“Oh! Hawks!” Kithy smiles.
“…in preparation for later.” Vasili says. “Return when you’re done.”
“The hawks are as good as gone!” Chester says.
Chester and Kithy pick up a bunch of squeaking mole rats and put them in a bag. Kithy carries the noisy and writhing bag on her side.
“Let’s go.” Kithy says.
The iksar and human stares at Kaki as the trio passes by them.

The trio eventually enters a canyon filled with trees and two cliff walls on either side. Kaki looks behind them and ensures no one else is close by.
“What’s the deal about Tunarians? Isn’t this a training island?” Kaki asks. He worries he might already know the answer.
The duo looks confused at Kaki.
“Ah! You never got the info from Tayil, did you?” Chester asks.
“No, I… I didn’t get time for that.” Kaki responds.
“Tayil recently discovered Tunarians hiding on the island and changed so our training is to help her get rid of them all. That’s why the other guy almost got into trouble with Tayil and why he and a few others left.”

“Get rid of them all…” Kaki mumbles quietly to himself. He forces a smile. “I didn’t expect that. But we should be able to handle them easily enough, right?”
“That’s the spirit!” Chester says. “We’ll get those Qeynos-loving bastards off this island in no time! But for now the hawks. A mole rat please, Kithy.”
Kithy takes out two mole rats and hands one each to Kaki and Chester.
“Bring the hawks back when you get one.” Kithy says. “I want to pick a good feather for my collection.”
“Will do!” Chester says. “Let’s spread out. Last one to get a hawk pays for the first round at Ebb Tide’s Alehouse!”

Chester and Kithy walks off in each direction. Kaki goes eastward, a mole rat in his hands. He becomes dejected the further into the canyon he goes. Kaki worries the Tunarians are a no-go now. How would he be able to convince them to let him stay if they’re actively being hunted? The ship is already gone too. No way for him to escape the island anytime soon. That leaves Chester and Kithy… They seemed honest about actually wanting to help him. Except Tayil… Kaki shivers slightly as he remembers the spell. A squeak comes from Kaki’s hands. Kaki lifts up the mole rat and looks it in the face.
“What do you think I should do?” Kaki asks it. The mole rat says nothing and just it looks back at Kaki. “Figured as much.”

Kaki wonders how he’s supposed to survive on the island now when he spots something move in the bushes behind the mole rat. Kaki shifts his focus and sees the upper body of a green clad person with a bow pointing…!
Kaki quickly dives to the side just as he hears an arrow fly past him. The mole rat squeaks as it falls to the ground. Kaki gets up and starts to run when he spots another person in the direction he’s heading. Kaki veers to the side, narrowly dodging another arrow, and ducks behind a tree.

Kaki tries to gather his bearings. Two people are attacking him, probably more, but how many? Worst case he’s completely surrounded. Standing still is incredibly dangerous, but running blindly is also risky. Can he talk his way out? No th— wait, they’re Tunarians!
“I blessed an acorn in Tunare’s name” Kaki yells out. He ducks down to become as small as possible, half expecting to get shot any second now. Except… nothing happens? Did his statement work?
Kaki raises his head. “I don’t want—”
Something hits Kaki at the side of his head. His vision turns black.

Chapter 4, Tunarians
Something cold overwhelms Kaki. He jerks up and hits something at the back of his head. The shock causes the side of his head to hurt as well. He curls forward and grabs his head as he groans. Kaki stops. He remembers he just got shot a moment ago… a moment? Got shot but is still alive. Kaki opens his eyes, hands still covering his aching head.
A large group of green-armored wood elves and humans stand looking at Kaki on the other side of thick metal bars. Kaki realizes he’s inside a wooden box with a metal door. He got captured… The group whispers to each other. Kaki notices one of the humans holding an empty bucket in his hands. Water drops from it. Behind the crowd is a large fabric sewn together and suspended in the air between wooden logs; a large tent capable of fitting several people.

“You’ll an—“ the human begins when a rock flies out of the crowd and hits Kaki on the shoulder. Kaki winces in pain.
“You bloodthirsty murderers!” a wood elf from the crowd yells out. “We’ve kept to ourselves for months, not even interfering when you first came! And the moment you learn we exist, you attack us straight away! Is cohabitation such a foreign concept to you Freeportian bastards?” The wood elf walks away, causing more murmurs in the crowd.
The human from earlier looks back at Kaki and clears his throat. “If you answer us truthfully, we might let you live, ratonga. How many of you arrived with the ship?”
Kaki is troubled. He doesn’t know how many were on the ship. He could guess but the Tunarians would surely pick up on that. He probably wouldn’t even be able to answer any question they have.
They want the truth… There’s only one…

“…just a stowaway.” Kaki mumbles.
“What was th—“ The human begins.
“I don’t know how many!” Kaki yells. “I was just a stowaway on the ship!”
The human frowns. “Do you think we’ll believe such a lie?”
“I’m just a thief who fled from the city guards!” Kaki continues. “I just found a barrel on the docks to hide in! I didn’t even know where the boat was heading to!”
“Be quiet and answ—!”
“And the moment I came here, Tayil almost killed me! Now I’m in a war I don’t want to be a part of!”
“Just shut up already!” the human yells back. The crowd murmurs even more.
“Then I found two of you praying for an acorn to Tunare and I thought we could be friends by doing the same thing!”

“We’d never accept anyone from Freeport! Watch your tongue!” 
“But aren’t people worshipping the same god meant to accept each other?” Kaki counters. “Wouldn’t it be against Tunare wishes to attack another follow—” Kaki yelps as the bucket hits the door right in front of his face.
“You dare use our goddess’ name against us?!” the human shouts as the crowd joins in. “There’s nothing more to ask this heathen! You’ll be judged for all of Freeport’s crimes after this conflict is over!”
The crowd curses and jeers at Kaki while they pelt him with rocks. The ratonga curls into a ball and just endures the onslaught.
A few minutes passes. The last person from the crowd says one final jeer and spits on Kaki before they leave. Kaki cries.

Hours later. It’s late evening. Kaki lies down inside his cell, his aching back facing the cell door. Tunarians walk past him every now and then, doing whatever task they have. Kaki tried to strike a conversation with them multiple times, tried to convince them he didn’t mean any harm. Yet none listened. Some even threw another insult, threat, or rock at him. Kaki then stopped trying. He just quietly waits for it to get dark.
A few voices approach. Kaki figures more people come to insult him again.
“There’s nothing more we can do here.” a dark male voice says.
“Please, we can’t stay.” a female voice says.
“Let me just check this rumor first.” a third, also female, voice says.
Footsteps of three people stop in front of Kaki’s cage.

“Are you the one who claims to have blessed a seed in Tunare’s name?” the third voice asks.
Kaki stays motionless, indifferent to the question. What does it matter if he answers if he’d just get pelted with more rocks?
“Please? I need you to answer me.”
Kaki stays silent. What does it matter if one more rock is thrown at him?
“Yes…” Kaki mumbles.
A moment passes in silence.
“Can you please look at me?” the voice asks.

Kaki stays still. He then pulls away his hands and slowly turns up, careful not to aggravate the pain in his back. Kaki sees a female wood elf dressed in a lighter green robe crouching down in front of the cage. It’s a bit hard to see but the front of the dress seems to be embroidered with a wooden cane, crown, and a single vine wrapped around the cane. Behind the robed wood elf are two green-armored Tunarians; a female human and a male wood elf. The duo in the back look around everywhere as if anticipating something.
The robed elf looks straight at Kaki. “Can you please tell me what it is you did?”

Kaki wonders what the elf really wants.
“I—“ Kaki interrupts himself as he clears his throat. “I saw… heard two elves pray to Tunare… for the acorn. I-I wanted to be friends… so I also prayed for an acorn.”
“What happened to the acorn?”
“Nothing…” Kaki says. “The elves’ acorn sprouted but nothing happened to mine.”
The dressed elf quietly studies Kaki. Kaki isn’t sure what she expects of him so he just looks back.
“Priestess, we need to leave.” the female Tunarian in the back says.
The Priestess looks a moment longer. “Yes. Let’s leave.” she finally says. The Priestess gets up and joins her two companions. They say nothing more as they leave.

Kaki wonders what the elf actually wanted. Maybe gather evidence for when he’s judged? At least they didn’t throw any more rocks at him. Kaki takes another look around the camp since he’s already up. The large tent in front of him covers most of his view but Kaki can hear Tunarians behind it, conversing about something. More tents are visible to the side. Kaki doesn’t know how big the camp actually is but he wonders how the Tunarians managed to stay hidden on the island for as long as they did. Does Tayil already know where they are? Does Chester and Kithy know what happened to him? Kaki sighs. He looks over at the large padlock on the cell door. It’s a rough design but he still believes it should be possible to unlock it. Just not while everyones’ awake and can see him.
A standing torch gets lit some distance away, heralding the night.

Hours later. The night is pitch black. Torches spread faint lights around the camp while snores are heard from the nearby tent. Kaki sits up and tries to fiddle with the thick padlock of his cell. The Tunarians took his pouch and the tools he kept there, but they missed the single lockpick he kept hidden inside his belt. Kaki slowly twists the lockpick inside the padlock together with a large wooden splinter. The mechanism inside begins to grind until the fragile splinter cracks and the mechanism returns to its original position.

Kaki grumbles. Another splinter broken. He throws it away and looks around his cell for any other splinter to pull off. The padlock proves to be much harder to open than Kaki had anticipated. This is normally much easier when you also have a dagger at hand. He’s not giving up though. While he might not be friends with either Tayil or the Tunarians, he hopes he can manage things together with Chester and Kithy. If he can find them.
Kaki hears a distant yell about fire. He stops and lies down and faces the inside of his cell. Kaki figures he’ll have to wait until things die down before he try again.

Tunarians from around the camp begins to yell. “Fire!” “There’s a fire!” “Wake up!” “We’re under attack!” “Get water!”
Kaki ponders for a second. Att—? Kaki quickly jerks up and immediately bends down again with a wince as the pain in his back reminds itself. He recovers and look out of his prison cell. Kaki sees new unusually bright light sources in the camp. Then something shatters next to the tent in front of Kaki and a flame blazes up on the spot. Kaki squints his eyes from the sudden light. He slowly opens his eyes and sees a wooden stick mixed with clay shards in the middle of the fire. Fire arrows with burning oil! Tayil’s men must be attacking already!

Several Tunarians appear from around the tent and scream about the fire. They begin to beat it out in order to save the tent. Thuds are heard from the Tunarians as they scream in pain. Kaki sees several arrows stuck in their bodies as one of the elves fall down into the fire. The elf screams loudly as he struggles to get out of the fire. The other Tunarians quickly pull out their brethren and try to stop the fire as they drag him away. Two Tunarians get hit by more arrows, causing them to collapse. The burned Tunarian gets pulled behind the tent while the other two lies motionless on the ground. More screams of pain, fire, and desperate orders are heard all around the camp.

Tayil must really want to get rid of all Tunarians! Kaki worries what he should do. What can he even do? The cell door is still locked and the fire isn’t too far away. Kaki looks back and forth for a solution when he spots the movement of a short shadowy figure close by. Kaki notices the figure has a tail. Isn’t that…?
“Chester?” Kaki asks.
The shadowy figure quickly twists around with a dagger in each hand and freezes. “Kaki!?”

“What are y—“ Kaki gets interrupted as Chester rushes straight towards Kaki.
“Ssssh, sssh, sssh, sssh, ssh!” Chester says as he covers Kaki’s mouth with one hand. “Why are you here, Kaki?” Chester whispers. “No, why didn’t you say what you did? Attacking two of Tayil’s Militia!? Me and Kithy almost got arrested because we wanted to help you!”
Kaki feels a pang of guilt.
“Tayil made so you’re wanted by everyone.” Chester continues to whisper. “Kill on sight. She forced me to enter the camp during the night to prove my loyalty. She even forced us all to attack on the first day! Why did you have to—?”
A crackling is heard as small sparks jump between the grate door and Chester’s arm.
“Shit!” Chester says right before pushing himself away from the cell.
“What—?” Kaki begins when a deafening crack hits the side of the grate door. Kaki’s vision blackens.

…
Kaki’s ears are ringing. His mind is a mess.
…
… …? …uh? Wh… what… happened?
Darkness. Am I… still alive…?
…
I’m on… the ground. I think. Where…
…my arms? Can’t move them?
…
I can smell… burnt fur?
Something happened to my arms?
Feeling… numb.
…
The ringing… can’t hear. What happened?
Chester was talking. Then he… jumped and…
A blast? Think magic. Lightning magic?
Lightning magic… someone threw lightning magic at us?
The Tunarians? Or… the others?
Was Chester also targeted? Or only Chester? Did he…?
He did jump. But… I don’t know… I don’t know. I hope he’s okay.
…
Ah, can feel my arms again.

Kaki slowly lifts himself when his back hits something. He steadies himself with one arm and feels around with the other. The feeling of numbness changes to the flat surface of wood. It’s the cell he was in. Or still is in. So it fell to the ground. Kaki strokes the dirt underneath him. He can’t feel the grate door anymore. Did it fall off from the blast? Kaki figures he can escape now. Just…

The sound of battle makes itself audible through the ringing. Dull screams of pain, yelling, metal against metal… They’re still fighting. Kaki recalls Chester said he’s wanted now. If anyone sees him… Kaki isn’t sure he can escape unharmed. And yet even if he did, where’d he go? The ship has already left. It’ll take a month for the next one. Kaki isn’t sure he can stay hidden for that long. Just… what can he do?
The sound of battle gets more and more audible around Kaki. He doesn’t know what to do. He curls into a ball and hopes whatever fighting happens won’t reach him.
The screams of pain… the screams…

Chapter 5, After the Raid
Hours later. It’s quiet, short of the crackle from dying embers. The attackers all left, presumably back at the Outpost now. Kaki slowly tips up his wooden cell, careful as to not make any sound. He squints his eyes as he get accustomed to the cloudy morning light. A light drizzle lands on Kaki’s face. The scorched remains of a tent is in front of him, thankfully far enough away as to not engulf his cell as well. Kaki lifts up the cell enough to crawl out. He lets the cell rest on the ground as he sits up and surveys the rest of the area. Chared piles of the former tents are everywhere. No one is in sight. Except the bodes of the Tunarians. Arrows, cuts, blunt, burns, magic blasts…

Kaki almost retches but manages to stop himself. His stomach growls in response, barely having eaten anything since he got onto the island. Not that he has any appetite to eat anything right now. Kaki stands up and looks to the west. He figures Tayil’s Outpost should be in that direction. If he’s to survive this at all, he’d better get as far away from them as possible. Kaki turns to the east and starts walking. He repeatedly looks around him in case any remaining stragglers are around.

A noise is heard close by. Kaki immediately tenses up, ready to run. He listens toward the direction of the noise. It’s quiet. Was it just a random noise? Kaki is aware he’s very much on the edge right now. He hears the noise again from within one of the tent remains. A weak groan. A male survivor? Tunarian survivor? Kaki wonders if he should check it out. Maybe it’s better to just avoid them completely—
“I-I’ve failed you… Tunare.” The survivor says.
Kaki pauses for a moment. It’s not right.

Kaki walks toward the burnt remains. Part of it is still unscathed, the fabric still shielding against the rain. Kaki peeks behind the debris. He can just about spot a wood elf lying on the ground a couple of meters in, trapped underneath a burnt log. Kaki lifts aside some of the debris so he can get to the elf. The elf opens his eyes and looks at Kaki. The wood elf frowns but doesn’t say anything.
As Kaki reaches the elf, he noticed that the elf has nasty burns across his chest and lower body where the burnt log is pinning him down. The elf rests his left hand on his chest, clenching something.

“So, you’re free.” the wood elf says. “Did you come to take revenge?”
“No” Kaki says as he sits down next to the elf.
“Then did you come to gloat?” The elf sneers. “To watch as the last spark of my life leaves my eyes?”
“No”
“Then why are you even here?”
“I… I don’t know. It didn’t feel right to leave you alone.”
“I don’t need your pity!” the elf angrily yells. “Just leave me alo—“
The elf coughs and groans loudly as he clenches his chest while holding his breath. Kaki gets worried, uncertain what he should do, or even can do.
A moment passes before the elf relaxes and finally starts breathing again. Kaki sighs in relief. The elf stays silent as he looks up at the fabric. Kaki looks down at his own hands, fiddling with the nail of his left thumb.

A few minutes passes in silence.
“Is it really true?” the elf asks.
Kaki gets taken aback. “W-w-what?” he stutters.
“Did you really make a prayer to Tunare?” the elf looks at Kaki.
“N-not a good one. The- the acorn didn’t sprout.”
The elf inspects Kaki. Kaki’s unsure what else to say so he looks back and forth.
The elf closes his eyes and sighs. “Could you pray for me?”
Kaki gets taken aback again. “What? F-for you?”
“Pray to Tunare for me.”
“But I’m not a Tunarian!” Kaki begins. “I-I did it only to try and hide among you. I don’t want to offend—“
“Ratonga” the elf interrupts. “None of that matters anymore. I don’t have much time left anyway. Could you please…” the elf pauses to breathe in.  “…please let the last thing I hear be a prayer to Tunare?”

Kaki looks at the elf, shocked at the request. Should he really do it? What should he even say? What if…? But the elf said…
Kaki closes his eyes. He then clenches them.
“Okay, I’ll try.” Kaki finally says as he slowly opens his eyes.
The elf nods. He looks up at the fabric again, his breathing shallow. Kaki places his hands on the elf’s chest and takes a deep breath. The ratonga pauses.
“Oh Tunare, I’m just a lowly ratonga, but please hear this prayer.” Kaki begins. “Your followers met a cruel fate, having been killed ruthlessly. May their souls find their way to you. Oh Tunare, please take in this last soul as well and guide him to his friends beyond beyond Norrath.”
The elf chuckles weakly as he smiles. “Thank… you…” The elf’s hand falls down to his side as his breathing stops.

Kaki opens his hands and sees the object the elf was clutching; a wooden medallion with the same cane, crown, and vine symbol that the Priestess had on her robe. The lower part of the medallion is slightly charred. Kaki leaves the medallion on the elf’s chest and sits next to him in silence. The calls of a falcon circling above being the only noise around.
Kaki wonders if he’ll suffer the same fate as the elf, dying a pointless death all alone on an island far away from home. Would someone pray for him as well? Probably not. …no, he doesn’t want to end like that. He won’t end like that.
A month. Kaki just needs to keep hidden for a month. The Tunarians are already gone now so he just needs to stay as far away from the Outpost as possible. Then the ship should arr—

“This one then?” a male voice from the other side of the debris says. Kaki freezes up and listens.
It’s quiet, apart from the falcon above.
“Theeere we go.” the voice says as the faint sound of coins is heard. “And a ring too. Nice.”
A looter, Kaki thinks. Nothing he’s foreign to. He’s done his own share of looting in the past. Kaki figures it’s better to leave before he’s spotted. Just as he gets up, he stops and looks back at the dead wood elf. The medallion… If the looter finds it, he’ll just sell or get rid of it. The elf wouldn’t want that. Kaki grabs and pockets the medallion. He quietly climbs to the edge of the debris and peeks out. The looter isn’t visible from this side yet. Better be quick about this.

Kaki exits the debris and tiptoes away. The falcon above suddenly begins screeching differently.
“Ah crap! She spotted someone!” the looter says. 
Kaki looks behind him. Who spotted—? Kaki freezes as the looter appears from behind the debris. The looter spots Kaki.
The looter looks shocked. “Chest—? No, wait… Wait. Wait! It’s you!”
Kaki doesn’t want to find what the looter wants and immediately runs away to the east.
“Hey everyone!” the looter yells. “I found the ratonga Tayil put a bounty on!”
Dull yells can be heard in response but Kaki doesn’t listen. He only runs.

Chapter 6, The Chase
Kaki runs out of the camp and farther into the forest, seemingly into another wide canyon with cliff walls to his sides and a river flowing along the left cliff. He peeks behind him but can’t see any of the looters. Can’t see them now but they’ll surely be after him. A familiar bird cry from the sky makes Kaki looks up beyond the tree crowns. He just about spots the silhouette of a falcon. The same one from the camp? …a trained falcon?  Such rotten luck. Kaki doesn’t know how trained the falcon is but if it can spot and follow people, then the looters will always know where he is. Forget trying to survive a month. He needs to survive the day first.

Kaki continues along the river at a fast pace. He hopes he’ll put enough distance between himself and the looters for him to figure something out. Kaki passes a burnt down tent along the way. Then another one. The attackers apparently weren’t satisfied with just burning down the camp itself. Tunarians sure were prevalent on this part of the island.  Kaki sees a bridge farther ahead going across the river. He maybe could’ve hidden underneath it, but the falcon above him would surely mark the area.

As Kaki reaches the bridge, he sees another sign of burnt down remains farther into the forest. Except the remains are larger. Kaki gets closer and realizes it’s not a tent, but a tree house. A tree house initially attached to a really large oak tree next to the canyon cliff wall. The remains of a spiral ramp goes up the tree but the house itself is now a smoking and smoldering pile on the ground. The side of the oak facing Kaki is severely burned, large part of its crown and those of adjacent trees being gone. Kaki figures someone special must’ve been in that house. Maybe that Priestess lady? It matters not.

Kaki looks at the giant oak tree as he passes it. That tree could’ve been a nice spot to hide in high up among the branches. Except it’s a bit too large and conspicuous. Plus the falcon would still know where he is. Kaki wonders if he should just run as far as he can and hope the looters will lose sight of the falcon. Except there’s no guarantee they won’t find it again. There’s no guarantee the island is even large enough for that either way. What should he do then? He can’t hide up in any trees anymore. Not as long as the falcon is there. Should he just hide under…ground?

Kaki stops. He looks back at the oak tree. Large trees tend to have animal dens underneath the roots. If he crawls into one of them, he should actually be able to stay hidden even from the falcon. The falcon would still mark the area for the looters but the den might be long enough for that to not matter. Especially depending on the number of exits. Kaki figures it’s at least worth to quickly check if there even are any dens there.
Kaki runs back towards the oak tree. Cracking sound of fire comes from the razed tree house as he gets closer. Looking through that pile would only risk causing harm. Kaki circles around to the back of the tree, its thick roots stretching far from the trunk. He scans along each root.

“Ow!” Kaki says as he steps on something pointy. He retreats a step and looks at his foot. Something stung him but there doesn’t seem to be any wounds, thankfully. Kaki looks at the ground. Grass covers the area in between roots big and small, but nothing sharp or pointy. Just a rock or twig or something? Kaki returns to look along the tree.
“Ah!” Kaki steps once more on something pointy. He looks at the ground again but can’t see anything this time either. No twigs or rocks. What’s going on? Kaki leans down and reaches toward the grass.

When he feels it, he notices it’s unusually stiff. Stiff enough to actually be sharp. Kaki notices the grass turns soft at a certain point. Strange. Kaki looks even closer and manages to just about tell the difference between the stiff and soft grass. The stiff grass stretches along a path around the oak tree and towards the cliff wall. A hidden path? Did the Tunarians hide it by growing grass on it? If Tunarians can make acorns sprout, then grass should probably be possible as well.

Kaki looks toward the cliff wall the path leads to. The wall is solid and nothing really looks out of the ordinary. Kaki walks closer, careful not to step on the grass again. He reaches out towards the wall and sees how the tip of his finger goes into the wall before it stops against a wooden surface. An illusion! The Tunarians must’ve really wanted to hide this. Kaki feels around some more and concludes it really is a door into a hidden cave. That’d be an excellent hiding spot. Except… are there any Tunarians hiding inside?

Kaki leans closer with his right ear. It feels strange seeing part of his head disappear into the wall as he puts his ear against the door and listens. The door might be thick as Kaki can’t hear anything. He pushes a little harder. The door suddenly gives in and opens up into the cave, causing Kaki to almost lose his balance. He takes a step forward to steady himself as he looks up. Inside the cave, Tayil, some dark armored Militia, and a mixed group of adventurers look straight at him.
“Isn’t that…?” one of the adventurers say before Kaki bolts away to the left.
“Get him!” Tayil yells from inside the cave as more voices follow up.

Kaki sprints along the cliff wall. He’s about to run towards the bridge when he spots someone coming from the other side. Crap, the looters! Kaki takes the path around the cliff edge instead. He runs a few meters before he realizes he’s approaching a dead end. Oh, crap. Kaki frantically looks around for anywhere to go, to hide, anything. The trees? The river to the left? A hole in the cliff wall? Where should he—? Noises approach from around the corner. Kaki stops thinking and dives straight for the hole.
“There! He’s going into the hole!” a voice shouts.

Kaki crawls as fast as he can, aided by the initial momentum from diving in.
“Grab him!” another voice shouts. The sound of footsteps and armor are heard at the entrance.
“He’s too far in! ” a third voice shouts. “Shoot him with an arrow!”
“Nnn, can’t see him!” a fourth voice says. “No good shot.”
“Fire then! Use a fire spell!”
Kaki realizes he might literally get cooked now. He crawls as far in as he can see through the den. Except… why can he still see what’s front of him? There’s a… faint light up ahead? An exit? Kaki feels the air flow from behind him as it gets brighter. He crawls toward the exit and and pulls himself out. He rolls to the side just as fire bellows out with a loud noise, scorching the ground. Kaki pants with his eyes closed.

“Wait, guys!” a barely audible voice says from the other side of the hole. “That blast actually exited somewhere. Isn’t this…?”
“The cave! He’s in the cave!
Kaki bolts up and looks around. Tall braziers light up the cave, a few wooden crates with a pickax next to them are close by, a wooden flooring in one side of the room, and the bloodied corpses of a green-robed Tunarian, a bear, badger, and a wolf are spread around. Crap, it really is the same cave he just ran from. Except no one’s inside now. Kaki sees the backside of the camouflaged door. He gets up to open it but hesitates. Everyone are bound to be just outside. Got to hide somewhere! Quickly!

Kaki looks around the room again. The crate? No, too obvious. Underneath the floor? Not with the time he has. Out through the den? No, they’ll surely have a lookout. Underneath the bodies? No, he wouldn’t even get fully covered. But the bear? As if he’d be able to pull that weight over himself. Then what can he…? Kaki pauses and looks at the bear again. It’s a brown bear. He looks at the fur of his arm. Also brown. Would that fool—?
Noises come from outside the door. No time to think! Kaki rushes over to the bear and pulls off his tunic. He lies down against the bear’s stomach that’s facing away from the door just as it violently opens up.
“He’s in here! Find him!” someone yells.

Multiple people rush into the cave as Kaki curls closely into the bear, burying his face, hands, feet, and tail as far underneath its fur.
“The crates!”
“Not here!”
“The flooring?”
“Check the walls!”
Scrambling gear, footsteps, and shouts are heard all around Kaki. He sees nothing of this as he lies as still as possible. Kaki flinches when he hears wood break both front and behind him. That must be the crates and flooring. Someone bumps into the bear, causing Kaki to flinch again.
“What’s going on in here?” a commandeering, yet worryingly familiar female voice booms from the entrance. It immediately gets silent as Tayil’s footsteps echo in the cave. Clack. Clack. Clack. Clack.

“I thought I told you to catch that ratonga.” Tayil says. “When did I say you could destroy whatever’s in this cave?”
“We saw him crawl into a hole that led into here so we—“ someone says behind Kaki.
“When” Tayil loudly interrupts, “did I say you could destroy what’s in here?”
It gets silent.
“You say you saw him crawl in here.” Tayil begins. “Did anyone at least stand guard in case he crawled back out?”
Silent again. Kaki is surprised. They didn’t?
Tayil humphs. “I’ll turn a blind eye this once since you found the cave and the Elder in the first place. Consider that to be your only reward. Now leave.”
Several footsteps walk around Kaki as they leave the cave. The door closes, the cave becoming quiet once more. Is it safe now?
“You’re still in here, aren’t you?” Tayil says. Kaki immediately tenses up and almost gives away his position.

“It’s impressive how much you’ve managed to do in such short time. Especially in evading pursuit.” Tayil chuckles. “Freeport could use a talented individual like you, contrary to certain other… failures. I’ll give you one chance. If you come out now and swear allegiance to Freeport, I’ll pardon your previous transgressions and have you appointed as a scout under my command.”
Kaki gets taken aback. Is it true? Would she really do that? What other choice are there? But what if it’s a trap? Can Tayil really be trusted?
Tayil clicks her tongue after a moment. “Figures.” She walks toward the door and opens it. “Militia, guard the entrance in case anyone comes here.”
“Yes, Emissary!” two Militia responds.
The door closes, leaving the cave in silence.

Chapter 7, The cave
Kaki still lies against the bear, worried anyone might hear him. He didn’t take Tayil’s offer. He hesitated. Again. Kaki isn’t sure if he dodged the arrow or just doomed himself. Just… was it really the right choice? He can’t really survive on the island by himself. A whole month is just impossible with everyone chasing him. Maybe he should try and catch up to Tayil? But she said she only gave him one chance… unless he maybe could “prove his talent” again in some way? Maybe sneak into the tower at the Outpost during nighttime? Sneak in and… ask her? Or leave a note f—
A weak thud hits the door from the outside.

Kaki presses himself against the bear’s fur and holds his breath. He stays completely still, listening for anything that could happen. …but nothing happens. Kaki relaxes slightly as he breathes out. He feels like he’s been on the edge ever since he came to the island. One life threatening situation to another. Kaki sighs. If only he didn’t mess up the first meeting with Tayil. If only he actually took her off—
The door violently flies up and slams against the inside, echoing throughout the cave. Kaki almost gets a heart attack. Footsteps enter the cave. Kaki tenses and curls himself as small as possible.
“Oh no, Kayl…” someone just about mumbles from the door. Then an unbearable silence.
“The coast is clear, thank Tunare.” a darker male voice says.
Tunarians! Some of them actually survived?

"Go get Lana. I’ll take care of the bodies.” the same darker voice says. He takes a few steps towards the door before he stops. “Vance?”
“O-oh, ok. Got it.” a lighter male voice, Vance, responds.
Both leave the cave as a new pair of lighter footsteps enter instead. The newcomer walks farther into the cave as metal and leather gets dragged across the rock floor from the door. Kaki figures it’s one of the Militia being dragged in. The lighter footsteps stops in the middle of the room. Kaki recalls there being a Tunarian body around there. The other person stops dragging the Militia body and leaves the cave again.

“Oh Kayl, my dear friend.” a light female voice says as a second body gets dragged in.
That voice… that sounds like the Priestess person from before.
“You could’ve just left the moment the attack started.” the Priestess begins. “Yet you stayed to help anyone who might have survived. Of that you have my deepest respect.”
“Is it possible to revive him?” the darker voice asks. He stops dragging the second body.
“No… he’s too far gone, I’m afraid. He wouldn’t survive even if I did.”
“Oh… may you find yourself in Tunare’s embrace, Kayl.”
“I’ll prepare him so we can bring him with us.”
“Okay. I’ll go help the others then.” the dark voice says. He exits the cave, leaving the Priestess alone.
Kaki hears a light hum from where the Priestess is. A mix of slightly changing hums and light hissing from the body. The Priestess quietly continues her procedure.

Kaki thinks of what was just said. Revival magic… a healer is a must in any adventuring group given the dangers of Norrath. Kaki never had the need to be revived himself, never had to experience death, thankfully. He’s heard how weakened people feel after being revived. Also stories of foolish people who tried to repeatedly revive someone despite said person being unable to survive. Kaki recalls the Priestess mentioned bringing Kayl with them. Just where would they go from here?
A groan comes from outside the cave.
“Careful, just a little more.” the darker voice says as three pairs of feet enters the cave. One of the pair seems to shuffle their feet forward.
“Here, put her down here.” the darker voice says. Leather scrapes against the cave wall as a low female groan is heard.

“Is the Priestess…?” the lighter voice, Vance, begins.
“No, Kayl’s too far gone, sadly.” the darker voice answers as he walks towards the entrance of the cave. “She’s just healing Kayl’s body to bring along.”
“Goddamn it! Not Kayl as well!” The lighter voice shouts and hits the cave wall. “Are you certain it’s not possible? Lana was also almost too far— wait, no. I’m being disrespectful. I’m sorry.”
“It’s okay Vance.” the Priestess says. “I would’ve done it had I believed there’d be a chance for Kayl to survive. Ah, Rutan. Could you please leave the door unbarred?”
“I just wanted to ensure no one could come in after us.” the darker voice, Rutan, says.
“If you bar the door, other survivors might not be able to reach us before we leave.”
“But…” Rutan begins. He pauses for a short moment. “No, you’re right.” he finishes as a board clatters on the ground next to him.

The hums and hissing from around the Priestess ends. She walks over to the others.
“How are you feeling Lana?” the Priestess asks.
“I-I… I’ll manage.” Lana says weakly.
“We’re all happy you’re back with us, my dear.“ the Priestess says.  “It’s not much further now. Soon you can rest. Vance, can you please help Lana again while Rutan carries Kayl?”
“Okay.” Vance and Rutan responds.
The Priestess walk over to one corner of the cave while Lana groans again as Vance helps her up. It gets silent, short of Lana’s breathing. Kaki wonders where the Tunarians will go from here.

A slight rumbling comes from where the Priestess is. Rocks grind against each other for a moment until they become quiet.
The Priestess sighs. “It saddens me to leave the island under these conditions but we have a responsibility to survive. Shall we go? The boat should soon be ready to leave.”
Kaki twitches. Boat? There’s a boat? The Priestess goes ahead as her footsteps begin to echo from entering a passage. There’s actually a hidden tunnel inside the cave? The others follow after the Priestess. The hidden passage begins to rumble again for a moment before the cave is silent once more.

Kaki stays still. Are they all gone now? Will someone suddenly appear again? Kaki waits, his heart not yet daring to calm down. After a few minutes, he finally musters the courage to peek above the bear. One of the bodies, the wood elf one, is gone. Two new bodies are close to the door. Two black armor-clad Militia with small puddles of blood by their heads. Their swords are still strapped next to their waists. Were they killed by arrows? Quite impressive of the Tunarians to get both of them at the same time. The Militia didn’t even get a chance to retaliate. Apart from that, the crates in the room are smashed and their content, blue rocks it seems, lie strewn around next to the pickax.

Kaki sighs deeply as some of the tension in his body leaves. Finally alone. Finally time to think. Kaki looks over at the corner where the Tunarians left. The Tunarians did talk about a boat. A boat off this island! Soon even! Except… it’ll be filled with Tunarians. How should he get onto the boat without getting shot like the Militia? The barrel trick again? Or…?
…no. Can worry about that when he actually gets there. It’s either that or hoping he won’t get discovered again for thirty days until the adventurers’ ship arrive. Even then he still have to get onto that ship. No. First thing first. Kaki walks around the bear and towards the spot he last heard the Tunarians. Nothing is visible except for the cave wall, yet they actually have a hidden tunnel here. Good thing Tayil never found it earlier. So, to open it…

Kaki looks around but can’t see any switch or lever. He feels along the rock wall for anything hidden, his fingers sliding along every crack and mark in the wall. He pushes parts in and tries to pull them to the side, yet  nothing. Kaki can’t find any indication whatsoever there’s ever been a door or passage here. But he did hear the Tunarians open it. They even left through it. Unless it was a portal? …no. A portal shouldn’t sound like scraping rocks. No, they said they went for a boat. It even echoed from the tunnel. Just… how did the Priestess open it? Magic then? Kaki didn’t hear any magic being used though. Or was it some kind of silent spell? Kaki isn’t able to use magic so that’s a dead end. What rotten luck. What then? Maybe just climb the cliff wall instead? Except the falcon and the looters might still be around. Don’t want to risk it. Although…

Kaki looks toward the broken crates. The pickax is still there. A crude solution but a solution nevertheless. Kaki walks over to the pickax and picks it up. It weights more than expected. He is about to walk back when he figures this will surely take a while. Better block the door first. Kaki goes to the door and uses the wooden board the Tunarian discarded and lodges it against the door and the ground. He then returns to the rock wall. Kaki lifts the heavy pickax and strikes the wall. Splinters of rock flies off as Kaki’s hands vibrate from the impact. This will certainly take a while.


Kaki lifts again and strikes. A strange green force suddenly reflects the pickax to the left. Kaki loses his grip and almost falls to the side as the pickax clatters a short distance away on the ground. What… the heck just happened? Kaki looks up and sees a large glowing symbol of a cane, crown, and a vine on the wall. It’s that symbol again! It illuminates the area with a dull green luster. The sound of rolling gravel come from the spot Kaki struck at as it mends the little damage he did. The noise and the light then stops.

“That’s… interesting.” Kaki mumbles to himself. He guesses he probably should have expected Tunare to be involved somehow. Kaki glances at the pickax on the ground. Guess digging his way through is also out of the question now. Although… if Tunare is involved, does that mean he needs to pray to open it? Like the elf’s acorn? It was the Priestess who opened the tunnel after all. Except… Kaki didn’t get the acorn to sprout himself. Would he even be able to open the tunnel? It’s either that or hoping the looters outside won’t get him.
Kaki positions himself about two meters from the wall. He clasps his hands together and closes his eyes.
“Oh Tunare. Blessed be your name.” Kaki begins. “This ratonga thanks you for your time. He wishes to enter the tunnel and escape the island together with the other Tunarians. He’d be very happy if you could allow him this. Bless your name.”

Kaki keeps his eyes closed as he waits. Nothing happens. He opens his eyes. Nothing at all happens. Did he do it wrong? Well, obviously. Maybe if he worded it differently? Or is there a procedure he doesn’t know of yet? Is praying even what he’s supposed to do? The Priestess was silent after all. Kaki ponders. Maybe he should take the chance at climbing the mountain instead? Just hoping he won’t get found out by the falcon or the looters, hoping he won’t fall and hurt himself, hoping he’ll actually find the way to the boat before it leaves. Either that or… Kaki takes out the wooden medallion from his pocket and looks at it. …or this. The scorched part of the medallion feels a little rougher compared to the rest of it.
…
Kaki takes a deep breath. He figures praying in here would at least be safer compared to the mountains. Kaki clasps his hands around the medallion and begins another prayer.

Chapter 8, The Tunnel
An hour passes. Kaki sits on the ground in front of the wall with his legs crossed, his hands still holding the medallion while they rest on his legs. He tries to stay focused but his his head repeatedly bobs down from sleep deprivation. The tunnel refuses to open no matter what Kaki does. No requests, praises, pleads, or promises work. His mind wanders back and forth.
Oh Tunare. Am I doing the right thing? I’m worried nothing I say can reach you. Should I have climbed the mountains anyway? Should I have taken Tayil’s offer earlier? Was it wrong of me to approach Chester and Kithy? Should I have just admitted I was a stowaway? Just let myself get imprisoned?

Do you blame me for what happened at the camp? I..I didn’t know what Tayil would do on the island… didn’t know anything. I only wished to survive… came here by chance. I would take the chance to learn a craft… woodcrafting maybe and maybe get a better life. I’d… I’d go live somewhere nice. Someplace close to a forest. I’d go out into the forest… go find something to work on. I’d look around, searching. I’d search everywhere. I’d find a… a tree. A good tree. A radiant tree. A tree of splendor. A magnificent tree… Yes, so magnificent… I’d bask in its glory. It offers a part of itself… I’d accept what the tree offers me. Yes… I’d bring a part of the tree. I’d sit and… hear banging. …banging?

Kaki wakes up slightly disoriented but becomes fully alert when he hears a loud thud against the door to the cave. Kaki twists around and sees that the wooden board he used to barricade the door crack slightly. He immediately gets up and runs over to the bear again. He pulls off his tunic and lies down against the bear as another thump and crack comes from the door. Kaki focuses on lying still when he hears the sound of grinding rocks from where he was. …no. Kaki looks up and sees the tunnel closing itself.

“No. No! No! No!” Kaki shouts as he leaps up and rushes to the tunnel. He extends his hand as if reaching to grasp the opportunity in front of him, but forces himself to pull back in order to not get crushed by the rocks. The tunnel fully closes in front of Kaki, leaving him inside the cave. A loud crack comes from the door. Kaki turns around and sees two black armored Militia standing by the now opened door. The Militia looks around the room and spots the corpses of their fellow brethren before they see Kaki.
“…you!” one of the Militia, a human, says coldly. Kaki recognizes him as the one he bit when he fled the Outpost. The other Militia is unknown.

“Should’ve known…” the Militia mumbles. “Guard the door! I’ll get this Tunarian spy.” The human draws his sword and slowly approaches Kaki while the other Militia stands by the doorway.
Crap. Kaki slowly circles around, keeping his distance. What should he do now? Can’t hide anymore. Kaki glances around for anything to use. The corpses still have weapons on them, except the Militia is in between. The pickax, albeit cumbersome, is still on the ground too. Lots of blue rocks. He still holds his tunic in his hand. Maybe he could… yeah, probably only got one shot at this.

Kaki deliberately darts his eyes over at the weapons by the corpses. The Militia tenses up. Kaki quickly scurries around the wall towards the corpses. The Militia reacts and runs to intercept. Before Kaki reaches the weapons, he throws his tunic at the Militia’s face. The Militia effortlessly grabs the tunic with his free hand and pulls it away. Kaki quickly grabs a fistful of dirt and gravel and throws that as well, causing the Militia to yelp as it get into his eyes.

Kaki ignores the weapons and bolts straight toward the Militia and jumps. Kaki latches onto the Militia’s head, causing the Militia to lose balance. The Militia flails his arms as he falls backward. Kaki feels a jab on the right side of his back but ignores it as he pull off the helmet right before the Militia’s head hit the rock floor with an audible crack. The Militia twitches slightly before he stops moving. Kaki stands up, helmet still in his hand. A sword clatters to the ground behind him. Kaki looks over at the other Militia. The Militia by the door looks shocked. His eyes dart between Kaki, the collapsed Militia, and the two other corpses in the cave. The Militia takes one step back. Then he runs away.

“What?” Kaki says, baffled. The Militia ran? Did he actually flee? Or is he returning?
A moment passes with nothing happening. Kaki takes a deep breath. He can feels his heart pumping frantically. That spike of adrenaline really made him focused again. Should he flee the cave? That Militia will surely bring more people next time. But where would he run? No… Kaki looks over at the corner where the tunnel was. He managed to open the tunnel! …somehow. But he actually succeeded! If it works once, it should work again. But first…

Kaki runs over to the door, closes it, and uses two boards to bar it in place. He turns around and freezes when he notices drops of blood trailing from the Militia he just fought. The sword is also bloodied. Oh no. Kaki looks around his body but can’t see any wounds. He drags his hands across his back. His fingers stop just below the ribs on his right side as they find a hole. That’s… not good. Why can’t he feel any pain from it? Combat high, maybe. Can’t just leave it like that, though. Kaki looks around the cave. He spots his tunic on the ground. He walks over to it and tears it in two before tying it around his body. There. That should do.

Kaki runs back to where the tunnel was. He sits down and pulls out his medallion. He takes a deep breath and closes his eyes.
Oh Tunare…
…how did he open the tunnel in the first place? He was being… apologetic? Also tired. Kaki guesses he got to start somewhere. Kaki starts apologizing for things that happened on the island again. He says he’s sorry for what Tayil did and hopes the Tunarians will be together with Tunare again.
Kaki pauses. He opens his eyes but is greeted by an indifferent rock wall. Kaki closes his eyes again. He prays he’ll be a better person in the future if he gets off the island. He’ll stop being a thief and work on a real profession. He’ll even try and help others to a better life. So please, open the tunnel?

Kaki looks again. Still nothing. Kaki gets worried. What is he doing wrong now? He did the same thing as last time, he thinks. Did he do something else as well? Kaki pauses. Maybe if he just stops thinking and focus, he might figure it out.
Kaki takes a deep breath and closes his eyes once more. He tries to steady his breathing and let go of his thoughts. Easier said than done as worry and anxiety make their way into his mind one after another. What if… maybe it won’t work… missed opportunity… focus! More Militia… already missed the boat… the wound… stop thinking!

A few minutes passes. Kaki still can’t figure out what he needs to do. However, he notices his thoughts finally starts to calm down. Maybe a little more.
A couple minutes later. Kaki’s breathing is calm now. His mind feels light. The worries from before feels trivial. What he needs isn’t to say some fancy words.
Just focus. Focus on finding Tunare. To find her presence. Somewhere in the vastness. Far into the vastness… still farther. …a source of light. A fleeting green spark in the darkness. Follow the light… It grows brighter. Still brighter. So bright! Too bright! Look away!
…it dims. Behold, but not gaze upon the light. Respect the light. The light feels warm. Bathe in its warmth. Accept it. The rocks sing. …sing?

Kaki wakes up. He looks forward and see how the tunnel opens again. Finally! Kaki quickly gets up, takes one step, and falls to the ground. W-what? What… just happened? Kaki tries to push himself up but can barely muster any strength. The exertion makes him feel very lightheaded. Kaki fights to keep consciousness as he breathes heavily. Why? Why is this happening? He got the tunnel opened again. He actually did it. He did what he was supposed to do. So why? What’s stopping him now?
The sound of grinding rocks are heard again. No… please no. Kaki struggles to crawl forward. Please don’t do this. Kaki reaches out with his right hand. Please… He feels how the rock wall pushes his hand back as it closes up. The cave turns silent.

…
I failed… there’s nothing more I can do. Can’t stand. Can’t move… Guess I’ll die just like that elf after all. Except no one will pray for me. I’ll die alone, like a rat…
…
Rocks start grinding again. The rock wall retreats from Kaki’s outstretched hand. Opening by itself? Kaki wonders if Tunare is taunting him now. Footsteps approach from within the tunnel.
“Is that…? Stop! Get back! A Freeportian is in the cave!” a dark voice, Rutan, yells from within the tunnel. Footsteps retreat back as the tunnel closes once more.

…
…they already left. As if they’d want anything to do with me; a thieving ratonga; an evil Freeportian; a murderer of their friends… Heck, I haven’t even been in Freeport before, the capital of D’Lere… But what does that matt—?
The sound of grinding rocks interrupts Kaki’s thoughts. …again? Footsteps comes from within the tunnel. Kaki struggles just to keep consciousness and can’t see anything. Two pair of footsteps approach. Someone humphs right above Kaki as the person steps over the ratonga and into the cave.
“Another dead Militia in here.” Rutan says. “And the dead ratonga. Seems like all’s clear in here.”
Something prods Kaki in the side of his ribs. Kaki groans in response.
“Not quite dead yet it seems.” a light voice, Vance says. He steps over Kaki as well.

“So who opened the tunnel then?” Rutan asks as a third pair of footsteps approach from the tunnel. “I don’t see any other Tunarians in in here.”
“Maybe they left the cave before they could go through?” Vance guesses.
“They opened the tunnel and didn’t leave through it? Twice?” Rutan retorts. The footsteps in the tunnel stop next to Kaki.
“Maybe the ratonga did it then.” Vance says nonchalantly.
Rutan laughs. “As if that’s possible.”
“It might actually be possible.” a female voice, the Priestess, says right above Kaki. Something is placed on Kaki’s back.
“What?” Vance says.
“You’re kidding?” Rutan questions.

“I can…” the Priestess begins.
A weak warmth enters Kaki’s body from the back. He feels like something within him reacts to the warmth.
“Yes, I can feel traces of Tunare’s domain inside the ratonga.” the Priestess confirms.
“How’s that possible?” Rutan asks. “You said yourself you didn’t see anything when he was in that cage.”
“He didn’t then. Yet he does now.” the Priestess responds. “He’s indeed, somehow, managed to bridge a connection to Tunare’s domain since last time we saw him. Twice even if we take the tunnel into account.”
“Why didn’t he leave through the tunnel if he managed to open it then?” Rutan asks. “How did he even find it in the first place?”

“The Militia and the wound must’ve interfered, I presume.” the Priestess says.
Kaki feels how the warmth seemingly explores his body. It isn’t unpleasant.
“His liver is pierced and he’s suffering from heavy internal bleeding.” the Priestess continues. “As for how he found the tunnel, I don’t know.”
Vance humphs. “He probably tortured someone for it then.”
“Tunare wouldn’t open up to anyone who harms her followers.”
Vance clicks his tongue. “Well, whatever. Guess that answers who opened the tunnel then. Let’s go back. The boat’s almost ready.”
Rutan and Vance approach the tunnel. Kaki tenses slightly as he feels something itch within his body. A humming sound surrounds him.
“Priestess?” Vance asks.

“We should bring him with us.” the Priestess says.
“What? No!” Vance says. “He’s a Freeportian and a ratonga! They can’t be trusted! Qeynos wouldn’t allow it either.”
“They allowed Lin.” the Priestess says.
“Most did not.” Vance retorts. “And it was only thanks to Bainyn that she didn’t get chased away the moment they saw her. Lin has proven to be an exception among exceptions, and even then people are still against her.”
“Someone who, on their own volition and without any help, manages to reach Tunare’s domain is someone worthy of being a chance.” the Priestess says.
“Alright, fine. He can come.” Vance resigns. He sighs. “Though it’s not me you’ll have to convince in the end. Don’t be surprised if they decide to execute him on the spot.”
“I’ll work something out.” The Priestess says.

Kaki feels how the Priestess gently rolls him on his back. Kaki groans and can just about keep consciousness.
“Oh, this…” The Priestess mumbles. She chuckles lightly as she places something on Kaki’s chest. Kaki manages to squint enough to see it’s the charred wooden medallion.
The Priestess slides her hands under Kaki and lifts him up. Footsteps follow behind her as she enters the tunnel. Kaki glances up at the Priestess. She notices and looks back with a smile. The cumulated fatigue and blood loss finally becomes too much for Kaki and he loses consciousness.

Story ends